---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

{% include base_path %}

***Working Papers***
------

* &quot;**Knocking it Down and Mixing it Up: The Impact of Public Housing Regenerations**&quot; (Job Market Paper) <br > *joint with [Lorenzo Neri](https://lneri.weebly.com/)* - \[[Link to paper](/files/20211105_Blanco_JMP.pdf)\]  <br>
<details>
    <summary>Abstract</summary>
    This paper studies the effects of regenerating public housing into mixed-income communities on the local housing market. We exploit a wave of public housing regenerations in London that not only demolish and rebuild existing public housing but also almost double the number of units on-site with new market-rate units. Over a six-year period, we estimate that regenerations significantly raise nearby house prices and rents, although house prices decrease slightly farther away. We also find that they attract higher-income households, increase positive amenities (e.g., cafés, restaurants), and reduce negative amenities (e.g., crime). The results are consistent with strong demand effects concentrated near the buildings and moderate effects from increased supply that persist in the broader area. We provide suggestive evidence that changes in a neighborhood's socioeconomic composition are important to explain price effects: regenerations in low-income areas and those adding a large number of market-rate units lead to larger price increases. Overall, our findings indicate that mixed-income housing can revitalize neighborhoods near decaying public housing, but the supply of new market-rate units can increase unaffordability in low-income neighborhoods. 
</details>

<br >

* &quot;**Pecuniary Effects of Public Housing Demolitions: Evidence from Chicago**&quot; <br > *Regional Science and Urban Economics*, accepted - \[[Link to paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166046222000850)\] <br> <details> <summary>Abstract</summary>
    This paper studies the effects of public housing on private house prices. I examine the impact of a large and negative housing supply shock caused by the demolition of public housing developments in Chicago in the 1990s and 2000s. Using a synthetic control method based on census tracts in distant parts of the city, I estimate that house prices increased by about 20 percent over a ten-year period in census tracts near the demolitions. A calibration exercise suggests that the upward price pressure associated with reduced housing supply cannot fully explain the observed price effect. This leaves room for a contribution from positive amenities generated by demolitions, which raised the demand for nearby housing units. The estimated importance of amenity effects is, however, sensitive to the way the affected housing market is defined. The results highlight that, while public housing can lead to lower local house prices for unsubsidized households by increasing overall supply, the way in which the public sector supplies housing can impose significant adverse consequences on its neighbors.  
</details>


***Work in Progress***
------
&quot;**Redistribution through Housing Assistance**&quot; <br > *joint with [Juliette Fournier](https://juliettefournier.site/)* <br> <details><summary>Abstract</summary>
    We examine the distributional implications of the shift from public housing to subsidized private housing initiated by the U.S. government over the past few decades. We build a quantitative urban framework where housing assistance complements income taxation to redistribute across workers. We argue that provision of affordable housing involves a trade-off between indirect pecuniary redistribution and direct amenity spin-offs. On the one hand, public housing drives local rents down, while amplifying the spatial concentration of poverty. On the other hand, project- and tenant-based rental assistance enhances the local amenities of subsidized households by promoting mixed-income communities, but pushes private landowners’ rents up.
</details>

<!--
* &quot;**Redistribution through Housing Assistance**&quot; <br > *joint with [Juliette Fournier](https://juliettefournier.site/)* <br > **Abstract**: We examine the distributional implications of the shift from public housing to subsidized private housing initiated by the U.S. government over the past few decades. We build a quantitative urban framework where housing assistance complements income taxation to redistribute across workers. We argue that provision of affordable housing involves a trade-off between indirect pecuniary redistribution and direct amenity spin-offs. On the one hand, public housing drives local rents down, while amplifying the spatial concentration of poverty. On the other hand, project- and tenant-based rental assistance enhances the local amenities of subsidized households by promoting mixed-income communities, but pushes private landowners’ rents up.

* &quot;**The Impact of Fair Share Housing Policies on Health and Opportunity: Evidence from Massachusetts' Chapter 40B**&quot; <br > *joint with [Noémie Sportiche](https://noemiesportiche.netlify.app/), [David Cutler](https://scholar.harvard.edu/cutler/home), [Madeleine Daepp](http://www.madeleinedaepp.com/), and Erin Graves*
* &quot;**The Impact of New Mixed-Income Housing on NIMBYism: Housing Values, Migration, and Political Participation**&quot; <br > *joint with [Noémie Sportiche](https://noemiesportiche.netlify.app/)*
* &quot;**Price Responses to Affordable Housing under Mandatory Inclusionary Zoning**&quot; <br > *joint with [Lorenzo Neri](https://lneri.weebly.com/)*
-->
